{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Measuring intention and emotional involvement in jazz improvisations \
Anna Jordanous\
\'a0\
\'a0\
This work-in-progress forms part of a wider research project on optimising AI music improvisation systems, towards maximising creativity. Music improvisation is fascinating to study for understanding creativity, being essentially a live demonstration of a creative process. It would be useful to identify metrics we can use to assess the creativity of musical improvisations, particularly for current generative AI systems that generate output at huge scales.\
\'a0\
Demonstration of emotional involvement is a key part of creativity in improvisation. Analysing musical audio, can we detect emotional involvement? If listening to a recording of music rather than observing performance, the only clues we have for emotional involvement are from any indicators in the musical content. This study hypothesises that if an improvisation contains more evidence of emotion-laden content, that improvisation is more likely to be perceived as creative.\'a0\
\'a0\
An embeddings-inspired method is proposed for capturing the emotional content in musical improvisations, using Juslin & Laukka (2004)\'92s classification of musical characteristics associated with emotions. Resulting \'91emovectors\'92 are analysed to test the above hypothesis, comparing across multiple improvisations which could be argued to be at different levels of creativity.\'a0\
\'a0\
If this approach proves successful, then capturing emotional content in this quantifiable way can contribute towards new metrics for creativity evaluation at scale, for music generation systems.\
}